---
created: 2022-12-20T08:05:33+10:00
modified: 2022-12-20T08:27:28+10:00
draft: false
category: thoughts
title: Awkward Silences
description: How WFH has changed my view of awkward silences
---

Working from home (WFH) has become the norm for many of us in recent times, and it has brought about many changes to our daily routines. One thing that many people have noticed is that they no longer experience awkward silences. This can be seen as a positive aspect of WFH, as it can be uncomfortable and stressful to be in a situation where no one knows what to say next.

Awkward silences are a natural part of communication and can happen in any situation, whether it's a business meeting, a date or even a casual conversation with friends. They occur when the conversation comes to a halt and no one knows how to continue. These silences can be uncomfortable and can even make people feel anxious or self-conscious.

However, with WFH, many people have found that awkward silences are less common. This is because the majority of our communication is done via email, instant messaging, and video conferencing. These methods of communication are more conducive to efficient communication, as it eliminates the need for small talk and can get straight to the point. Additionally, it's easier to plan and organize conversation, so the possibility of awkward silence is minimized.

Another reason for the decrease of awkward silences is that people have less social interaction in general, as we're not commuting or meeting as much with colleagues, friends or family. Thus, people tend to avoid situations that could lead to an awkward silence.

However, while the lack of awkward silences may seem like a positive aspect of WFH, it's important to remember that social interaction is an important part of our well-being. Awkward silences may be uncomfortable, but they are a natural part of communication and can lead to deeper connections with others.

With that in mind, it's important to make an effort to have regular social interactions, even if it's just a phone call or a video chat with friends or family. This can help to keep our social skills sharp and ensure that we don't become too isolated. Additionally, when we do have the opportunity to have in-person interactions, whether it's at work or with friends, it's important to be mindful and aware of the possibility of awkward silences, and to approach them with grace and understanding.

In conclusion, while the lack of awkward silences may be a side effect of WFH, it's important to remember that social interaction is an important part of our well-being. It's important to make an effort to maintain regular social interactions and to approach any awkward silences that do occur with grace and understanding.
